Allow invalid attempts in externally graded questions (#2206)
PrairieLearn/PrairieLearn: docs/externalGrading.md

> ## Grading results

Reviewer: Should we also add documentation to `server.py` and/or element-writing docs to say that `grade()` can set `gradable = false`?

Author: Since we're no longer parsing, should we still be setting `data['format_errors']`?  Should we have a new key like `data['grading_errors']`?

Reviewer: I'm not in love with the name `format_errors`, but I'm tentatively inclined to stick with only having one set of errors that correspond to `gradable = false`. My thinking is that it's sort of an implementation detail in the question about whether the "invalid" status of the submission is detected during `parse()` or `grade()`. We try and detect it during `parse()`, because that's friendlier for the student, but in any case we will treat the outcome the same (that is, `gradable = false` and `format_errors = something`). This has the advantage that we don't need to add separate code paths to handle `grading_errors`.

Thinking about it more, I could even talk myself into liking the name `format_errors`. Certainly for code that doesn't compile, that sounds a lot like a format error of some kind 😄

What do you think? Or is there some advantage to separating `grading_errors` from `format_errors`?

Author: I don't think there's an advantage to having it separate &mdash; I just don't know how I feel about the name either.  I suppose it's okay to keep it as-is, just sorta thinking out loud here.

Reviewer: Yep, I hear you. I added a couple more comments below. I'd like to be clearer about exactly which properties are being set on the `grading_job` and `submission` when we have valid/invalid submissions. Ideally the rules should be the same whether we discover the invalid status during `parse()` or `grade()`.

Also, it occurs to me that it would be nice to add something about the `grading_job` to the question flow diagram at the bottom of https://prairielearn.readthedocs.io/en/latest/dev-guide/

I think we just need to add information about the `grading_job` to the "Graded submission" and "Ungraded submission" ellipses.

> Your grading process must write its results to `/grade/results/results.json`. The result only has one mandatory field: `score`, which is the score for the submitted attempt, and should be a floating point number in the range [0.0, 1.0].

Reviewer: If `gradable = false` then should we make the `score` optional? It seems weird to be forced to set a score when it's going to be ignored.

> As long as this field is presetn you may add any additional data to that object that you want. This could include information like detailed test results, stdout/stderr, compiler errors, rendered plots, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As long as this field is present you may add any additional data to that object that you want. This could include information like detailed test results, stdout/stderr, compiler errors, rendered plots, and so on.
```

> The optional boolean `gradable` can be added to the results object and indicates that the input was invalid or formatted incorrectly.  For example, `gradable` can be set to `false` if the student code has a syntax error, in which case the code will not be graded and the student will not be penalized an attempt.  The omission of this field is equivalent to assuming that the input was gradable (`"gradable": true`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The optional boolean `gradable` can be added to the results object and set to `false` to indicate that the input was invalid or formatted incorrectly, for example if it has a syntax error that prevented compilation.  If `"gradable": false` is set then the submission will be marked as "invalid, not gradable", no points will be awarded or lost, and the student will not be penalized an attempt on the question.  The omission of this field is equivalent to assuming that the input was gradable (`"gradable": true`).
```
